well let's now bring you up to date with
what's happening on the ground in Gaza
where the UN says some 600,000 displaced
Palestinians are now Sheltering in un
facilities as bodies continue to be
pulled out from under the rubble
hospitals in Gaza are nearing total
collapse nearly half of the strip's 35
hospitals have now shut down Assad beg
has more on the situation in
[Music]
Gaza throughout the night hospitals in
Gaza receive steady flow of victims of
Israeli air
strikes afraid and in shock these
children were at home one minute and
being pulled from the rubber the
next we were having dinner we had just
put food on the table my sister was
laughing I was talking to her suddenly a
missile fell I thought it hit another
house I put my hands over my head and
started to say my last prayers I kept
praying the Palestinian help Ministry
says nearly half of gaza's 35 hospitals
have been forced to close their doors
those still operating are overstretched
running out of Basics like bandages
painkillers and disinfectant and perhaps
more worrying fuel for generators people
crowd outside believing this is the
safest place to
be for many Palestinians life now is
about survival this family has split up
so they're not all together in case of
an Israeli air strike some families in
Gaza have been completely wiped out
if we die then at least some of us will
be alive we put bracelets on to Mark
each other just in case something
happens I've seen bodies ripped apart
you can't tell the victims apart if
something happens and they are in pieces
this way I will recognize them from
these bracelets I will collect their
body parts the young hair have to also
face up to the possibility of being
killed all my siblings are wearing these
bracelets now we're separated half of us
are in hunis and half in Gaza City this
way we will all know each other if we're
killed then my mother will be able to
identify our bodies or if my mother and
siblings get killed we will recognize
theirs this is a daily reality for
Palestinian families trapped in Gaza
surrounded by death and the fear of not
being able to recognize your loved ones
if they are killed Assad bag Al jazer
well let's bring in our correspondent
Han buba who's on the ground there for
us in kanun honey as we've been saying
many hospitals have been on the verge of
running out of fuel many have do we know
how long the remaining hospitals can
actually
continue yes well there are more
hospitals joining uh an a group of
hospitals that are out of service uh for
the past few hours and we know the
crisis of fuel has made that process uh
more quick and in the coming hours we're
going to see more hospitals joining in
uh the only uh uh remaining hospital as
of now those who have a a a a store they
have a reservation of a fuel just a
little bit to keep them running uh till
the end of the day uh at any moment uh
more hospital will announce uh becoming
out of service due to the lack of of
fuel as well as a lack of medical
supplies which put the life of many
casual
and patients at Jeopardy and as because
it's uncertain of if if a fuel is going
to be allowed into Gaza or
not honey we know that the bombardment
has been truly unrelenting tell us about
what you've been seeing there over the
last few hours and and what you've been
hearing too from the doctors at the
hospital yes well just speaking with
doctors in the past few hours the
situations are grave and they are only
becoming worse as the the as we further
into this war there are more casualties
on the floor of the hospitals operations
room are filled and and just to put you
in a context uh we are joined with Dr
Muhammad kandil who's the director of
the emergency department at ner hospital
just to tell us more about the
situations in the hospital and how long
Naser Hospital could survive the lack of
of a f
can you tell us more about the
situations in ner Hospital in this this
difficult time yeah for the last two
weeks we are calling the human Community
the international Health Organization
are we are going to collapse actually to
be honest literally the collapse has
happened we have part of the uh
Hospitals now without electricity we
have the icus without electri without
water now the health system is now
almost most off the hospital corridors
are fully backed with s with Wounded
patient the hospital lecture hall are
fully backed with the wounded patient uh
the backyard of the hospital also fully
backed with the wounded patient we
putting patient everywhere we are buying
bed from everywhere but still we are uh
fully backed and we cannot compensate
much more patient the uh Medical Supply
most of it are off nothing came from
outside nothing came I'm confirmed that
nothing came from outside no medical
AIDS and no Medical Teams and we still
we still sending a call for a human for
a Humanity but no Dr Muhammad we we
understand that the hospital is
overwhelmed uh with casualties and and
and patience uh but can you tell us how
are you managing with this large number
of casualties particularly in in
operation rooms and with the with the
lack of of essential material what are
what are your emergency plan in these
difficult situations yeah I think the
words cannot describe how bad are the
situations so I'll give you some shots
for example in in the last night we
received 300 wounded patient we received
150 killed in the last night we did a
cerian section for two women severely
wounded in the emergency department uh
we are managing the situation with
something unusual with something
extraordinary our medical our guidelines
are not usual not regular in the routine
day it's like a not allowed it's banned
to use such policy but we are using
policy because which is a strict I'll
give you another shot young woman came
with her with severe injury in her tumy
and her intestin were outside so she
were alive she were telling us what's
her name and what we did for her only we
give her some peaceful wordss we ask her
to just relax and she's going to die she
she was knowing that she's going to die
within minutes and she did that's this
is some shots of our situation my
colleagues most of them received bad
news about their families now the head
of ICU department one of the ICU
department he received the news about
her his her his daughter sorry and
entire of her family they were bombard
and they are now still under the stone
the Dr Muhammad with the extreme
shortage of the fuel and and knowing
there's so many hospitals are have have
been shut down and and they don't have
services to offer how long can ner
Hospital survive with just limited
amount of fuel available to run the
power
generator to be honest we we are not
talking about regular Medical Services
now you know the bti the people with
heart attack the people with stroke the
people with bad sepsis and their body
are sending them home we said no no beds
from the emergency they simply facing
death we are not standing the health
system now is not standing is not
working if you see the hospital is open
the door is open but what you can do for
any patients with no medical supply with
no ventilator with electricity which
lagging on and off with no water and
most important part of the hospital
which is ICU so only the hospital door
are opened and only some refugees coming
in but the health system is collapsed
already we cannot say we have a still we
cannot work we don't have we cannot we
cannot say that we can serve more
patient this is all logic so literally
the health system is shut off we don't
have enough to offer to our patient
either the wounded one or the regular
medical patients thank you Dr Muhammad
for joining us so this is these are the
situations in the hospitals very dire
very difficult doctors are making very
difficult decision to decide whether
whether to to save who to save and who
to let go and with patience uh the the
Hospital cannot receive more more
patient into the
hospital H AB there on the ground for us
with that report from Kan yunes in the
Gaza Strip thank you hany well let's
bring in maub wary he's a professor of
contempary Middle Eastern politics here
at Kata University he joins me now in
our Doha Studio Maj we know there's
diplomacy going on but what does that
actually mean for all the people that
the families that we've been hearing
about the people whose loved ones are on
ventilated that are about to be turned
off the diplomacy we are seeing in in
the last few days needs to be more
effective and decisive and talks
directly about one major thing it's a
Seas fire any diplomacy does not talk
about this does not consider the
following facts more than 6,000 people
were killed half of them children and
women more than
1,00 units people they live in being
destroyed more than 44 hospital and
Health Center has been demolished and
more than um uh uh um um casualties
every day on on people who are working
in Health Service and civil service so
with all of this on the table any debate
any diplomacy does not talk about
immediate ceasefire putting a pressure
on Israel putting a pressure on
Washington putting a pressure on the EU
and United Kingdom that the people of
the Palestinians does equal exactly the
the the life of the Israelis if they
want to have some credibility some
respect some dignity they have to to
call to immediate seiz fire opening the
humanitarian corridors immediately allow
the fuel to go in otherwise they don't
have the right to ask about why people
hate them the hatred is there there they
can stop it now well we know that the UN
has for instance been calling very
loudly for fuel to be included in these
Aid
deliveries as I was discussing with
Russell earlier though it does sound
like there's the framework of some kind
of of agreement being well a negotiated
settlement and an idea floating around
that that's being hashed out
particularly by Regional leaders are you
optimistic about that at
all I think at the end of the day
Regional leaders they are working in the
context of international order I mean
they they have a connection with with
different players including the United
States there are some limitation I think
the focus now on um some uh arrangements
to allow fuel fuel to go in uh but of
course there is a lot of rejections and
and from from the Israelis and I think
it's the time where the United Nation uh
which uh Gish did upset Israelis last
night a lot is the time to put pressure
on Israelis and ask them that you know
getting the fuel in is actually allowing
people sa to saving thousand of of of
people's life I think it's also the time
to remind the International Community
that if they if they keep talking about
you know all of these casualties all of
this killing without having immediate
action they will be blamed at the minute
of not doing enough to stop this and
also keep an and open for opportunity
for people in Gaza to have the minimum
of Life at least saving some other
thousand of their lives and we're
watching that death toll continue to
rise in the meantime unfortunately M was
wary they're a professor of contemporary
Middle Eastern politics at catar
University thank you for joining me here
on